we have been collectively reading tobias
lee in arts newest book and in case you
don't know who tobias lee an art is
tobias lee an art is like the most hated
vampire within the vegan movement if you
don't know why he's a kind of infamous
and highly controversial figure you can
just look at the front cover of his book
it says with an introduction by Peter
Singer Dada it has been actively
promoted by Peter Singer on social media
he's got introduction tacked onto the
front of the book and that's a funny
thing in itself when you think about it
because Peter Singer was an
establishment mainstream figure in
animal rights and at least vegetarianism
a few decades ago if not veganism but
today he's kind of a controversial
I think widely hated figure in the
movement and you know Tobias he's also
now kind of regarded as an awful to read
as a provocative and largely hated
figure so what this habit said I invited
him on the show I've invited to come on
and do an interview with me and my
reason for being this video now is that
I think the first argument in the book a
book I have not yet finished reading by
the way I think there's kind of enough
to talk about there to make a standalone
video
okay now I'm springing this on my
girlfriend I do this stuff with no
script and no prep because it's more
spontaneous than way but this is the
argument I'm now gonna summarize devices
argument and then I can contrast my own
view and my girlfriend can jump in at
any time
the first argument I mean at the first
twenty five thirty percent of the book
is setting out really boils down to a
kind of plea for vegans and reduce
Italians to embrace each other you know
literally as well as figuratively I have
a photograph right here on my harddrive
of Tobias Lee and art embracing a
introduce it Aryan right I have a
photograph of him after reduce it Aryan
conference
yeah eh-eh-eh-eh-eh there it is so this
this is him literally hugging it reduce
it here okay they're not okay all right
okay all right
so look you know he breaks bread with
reduced Aryans he sometimes refers to
himself as a reduced Aryan rather than a
vegan and and there's a large part of
this book is devoted to basically just
supporting reduced Aryans as having
compatible goals and capital compatible
positive outcomes with vegans he offers
the following protracted allegory to
explain why he sees this way and at the
same time it explains why the vast
majority of vegans do not see it that
way he once spoke to a woman who is a
celiac celiac disease which is
devilishly hard to spell I had one
relative in my family with celiac
disease celiac disease is the condition
that really requires you to never eat
gluten okay that is not the same thing
as so-called gluten intolerance celiac
disease is a very real medical problem
and this woman's life has in somewhat
happened and so ways we made more
difficult by and in some ways made
easier by the larger and larger number
of people who do not have any medical
problem but who are buying gluten-free
products right so the parallel that
veganism should jump out at you already
we all know that the last 20 years
soy milk has become easier and easier to
purchase in the Western world it's not
because the number of vegans has
increased exponentially there are more
and more people who are not vegan poor
buying soy milk he throws us some
statistics that some vegan restaurants
seventy percent of their customers are
not vegan people who never will be vegan
the people were reduced Aryan or just
meat-eaters who want to eat a vegan meal
once in a while they're meat eaters who
just like the food but in a very real
economic sense they're providing the
basis for them so he's saying there's a
push and pull here there's a kind of
ethical fissure between people who are
real celiacs people who really have
celiac disease on the one hand and
people who are fake celiacs because
keeping it real that's what we're
talking ten to be gluten intolerant and
bi gluten-free bread and gluten free
breakfast everyone all kinds of stuff
but you don't actually have this medical
condition so naturally there's a kind of
moral antipathy or conflict there but
he's saying if you take a step back and
look at it in terms of the actual cycle
the actual economic outcomes what have
you you really are playing on the same
team and the fake celiacs are making
life easier for the real celiacs
therefore if so facto the fake vegans
are making life better for the real
vegans even if there's a natural hatred
of you know vegans heating reduce it
Aryans as fake vegans yeah well I will
just add this is kind of unrelated but
also somewhat related today I just saw
news that Nestle bought sweet earth
which was originally a vegan brand vegan
brand of faux meat and Nestle is
obviously yes but you know makes me
think of it because it they now with
Nestle buying it I think I think
sweeteners will be available and far
more surer than there right now now a
good scale of like specialized health
food stores and while I can see a lot of
people boycotting probably in the future
also I heard people are boycotting deya
too because they were just bought out by
a company that also tests on animals
anyway but at the same time you see
vegans going nuts because Ben and
Jerry's puts out one vegan variety tell
me it's right right and then for ever
made just dairy ice cream so yeah yeah
that's true but anyway vegans like to
boycott stuff I mean you know that's
that is fact one but yeah it's a little
bit crazy yeah I can see that argument
being purely safe and right sound to me
like I mean more people but but it has
an introduction by Peter Singer so we
hate look no but what's interesting too
is generally there are several arguments
in the first thirty percent of the book
where he's actually more conservative
than I am I'm using the word
conservative within the context of
veganism like he more adheres to a
traditional vegan perspective and I go
much further than him so let's let's
think of some examples um he very
politely and mildly criticizes the link
between social justice movements and
veganism he very vaguely employed Lisa
jests that veganism is not really a
social justice movement in the way some
vegans portray it to be I go way further
than him
maybe maybe we will maybe you determine
animals to be people but other people
don't okay like that or maybe maybe we
feel this way but other people don't
feel that animals are on the same level
as humans right
he very vaguely and politely suggests
that the arguments equating animal
exploitation with human slavery are weak
I go much further than that in this
channel and you know I deal with
specific examples and specific sources
and say look this is direct action
everywhere position etc etc so I mean in
some ways I'm much more radical than he
is and just say critics of his accuse
him of being a radical pragmatist or an
extreme pragmatist so in some ways I am
more pragmatic than him although in some
ways I'm more principled I think within
this video you know you're gonna see
that yeah yeah okay so to contrast my
own view here I think what's missing is
the big c-word I used to talk with this
gentleman a long time ago I think like
two years ago which is culture we can
talk about political change we have a
dietary change so we end up with change
in health guidelines given up by the
government the sometimes were just
talking about the diet aspect of
veganism we talk about economic change
but cultural change is I think really
the category we have to talk about these
changes then so in terms of bringing
about cultural change let's start with
the perception of cigarettes as an
example instead of gluten-free yes
obviously you're gonna have a tiny
percentage of the population that
actually become anti-smoking activists
why would you why would you there is a
much larger percentage population who
will quit smoking right so the tiny tiny
number way less than 1% I'm sorry fewer
than one percent fewer become actual
anti-smoking activists and then there's
you know millions of people who actually
quit smoking or who struggled with
smoking and then there's maybe a larger
number depends on where you're living
who don't quit smoking who continues
smoking but who start to adopt the
cultural attitude that smoking is a bad
thing whose share in the overall
assumption the shift compared to the
1940s and people actually thought that
stuff was healthy for you that it wasn't
a problem at all shifting into a
worldview that yeah this is something
has to be phased it over time put it
this way there's a
percentage of smokers even if they
continue smoking even if they're not
trying to quit they would not want their
own son or daughter to start smoking
they acknowledge so yeah likewise they
don't want their boyfriend or their
daughter's boyfriend or girlfriend right
and smokers yeah yeah so your daughter
starts dating a new guy you see smoked
cigarettes you don't think oh that's
okay cuz I'm a smoker too you'd think
he's a bad guy yeah it's got a bridge to
it so sure that's that's a process of
cultural change but the tiny percentage
of people who are actually anti-smoking
activists and that may include like a
cancer surgeon someone who specialized
in lung cancer and people who do
research on these different factors they
are actually going to lobby for change
at City Hall provincial Parliament
Federal Parliament other than the
state's Congress the Senate however you
want to put this right so there's
there's a there's a political aspect in
which we really need to be especially
concerned about and focused on that tiny
percentage so you know the the pure
vegans or everyone to put it the highly
motivated we don't have to think of them
as representative of the population as
well we don't think of them as leading a
transformation in the population of the
whole that's gonna make them resemble
that tiny minority
you know the activist minority I think
it's it's wrong and misleading to think
of them in mass market terms think about
what their importance is and again
that's only the legal and political
change we've talked about cultural
change the same way a small number of
artists a small number of musicians
cause a huge change but there are a
hundred and ten percent committed like
these activists that's what I'm really
interested I'm interested in a small
number of people who can cause a you
know a big cultural change and who will
cause a big compliment and my analysis
my perspective isn't really incompatible
with Leonardo incompatible is really the
question of what do we do now he's
saying let's put our effort into
supporting the long tail if you like you
talking about it as a line chart of
softcore dusit Aryans and I'm saying no
no no this small percentage the same
with you know I'm sorry but anti-smoking
activists or you know mothers against
drunk driving mothers gets to drive and
repeats the anythi alcohol activists
there's a tiny position population I'm
not saying the future everyone is going
to become a member of Mothers Against
Drunk Driving but this small percentage
of population can have an impact and
there's a large number of people who've
quit drinking
they're people who are still drinking
but who now regarded as a bad dangerous
thing who changed their cultural
attitudes right so when I see it that
way he is looking at it in terms of mass
market and a cycle of bringing out more
and more products more economically
viable products making life easier for
vegans and that is true I'm not refuting
that but I am looking at a cycle of
cultural change and political leadership
I know if you call that the other side
of the coin at the other side of the
equation and I'm saying no no we've got
to focus our energy and efforts over
here yeah no that's really interesting
I thought that was interesting when you
pointed it out and we were reading it
together then yeah we really maybe we
don't need more than 5% of the
population to be vegan - right for there
to be vegan options you know like we can
we can lobby for there to be vegan
options and like you mentioned in Taiwan
that there are vegan options and every
train station right just in schools like
you know you don't have to have a
religious majority for there to be
kosher meals that's right and I think
that's the paradoxical thing about being
principled I mean you think about it why
does a tiny minority like you know the
Jews have the access to kosher meals
well it's because our society recognizes
the principle of that like okay we have
to make a little bit of effort whether
it's at the airport or the hospital to
provide these special meals for these
people because there's an important
principle here whether you think of that
as the principle of religious diversity
a secular multicultural society or if
you actually believe in God or something
whatever the principle is that's being
recognized so yeah it's it's a bit
paradoxical because it may seem to make
sense that by being less and less
principled but being more and more
flexible you think you're gonna get
those outcomes but another question is
can't we just get organized and get
recognized 5% is a huge percentage of
the population where it's okay these
people matter you know respecting their
beliefs matters you know our society the
society is gonna comment us to the same
extent that they accommodate maybe Jews
and Muslims and what-have-you
yeah ya know that's you know I met one
girl it was part of an activist movement
on a university campus in England one of
the major universities there where they
ended up just getting veganism
recognized as a religion they added to
those because that was the easiest way
to solved the problem they really had
problems with vegans being able to get
food yeah anyway basically in campus
cafeterias and so on it was like what
you guys are knocking yourselves out to
offer halal meat and all this other
stuff why can't you make a little bit of
an effort so there's you know
nutritionally complete vegan meals and
that was that was the shortcut yeah so
anyway look I'm just want to say I'm all
for you know people that are going to
vegan restaurants that sure aren't
and you know you've mentioned that
opening a vegan restaurant or sure
bakery or whatever it probably is the
easiest like not nice so that's it for
sure but it's like a good way to be a
political activist it's the most
underrated food activism you actually
get involved with because you attract
people to veganism just by having good
food but I think you should come to the
restaurant because they've heard it's
good you know it's vegan like make it
possible for vegans to be vegan yes like
even if people just go to a vegan
restaurant because like oh i'll be
healthy for one night you know some
people quit drinking for just one sure
but i mean you know if you're talking
about seatbelt legislation i don't think
there ever was a point in America's
history where 5% of the population
really cared about see politics right so
a small percentage of people were
passionate about that they published a
hit book they started appearing on the
news and they grow through important
legislation that changed the way
Americans live their lives every day the
seatbelt is now a fixture of your life
every day there's an issue of principle
there you know there's an issue of you
know body count of dead bodies and
Street you know they're ethical as well
as as well as practical issues but know
if you think they mobilized 5% of the
population to come like rise up on the
streets or something no that's not how
it happened so I just say I guess tobias
as a point of saying don't underestimate
the soft core quite possibly
hypocritical fake vegans reduce their
because they're
they're in a hypocritical position you
know we call what everyone I call it
okay so we can say all right that's
that's that's duly noted but then I can
say from my perspective those people
aren't the people who ever passed new
legislation for seatbelts it wasn't
people who just passively said gee you
know my cousin Morty he got killed in
this car accident he didn't he didn't
really have to die if you got these guys
you know mmm
but I don't really care enough to do
anything about it yes of course there's
a larger number of people millions who
passively thought seatbelts were a good
idea but didn't we have to value and
work with and work on and we ourselves
become and raised money for and get
organized for and passed new laws form
with that tiny percentage of people who
really make the difference not only
politically but I'm saying here
culturally I think culture is really the
missing term in this kind of analysis
yeah when you mentioned Mothers Against
Drunk Driving and also the seatbelt
legislation to me like at first when I
was thinking about that I thought well
veganism isn't so direct like you don't
see people dying immediately from raw
meat like it's not like yeah oh well he
ate too much meat one night and died you
know like like alcohol you can have too
much alcohol in one night and die um
whereas you know Peterson doesn't have
that going for it but at the same time
you know if you look at the long term
how much how much the vegan diet can
benefit the human the human body okay
okay okay jump in though we have the
unbelievably awful spectacle of what
happens in slaughterhouses every day and
that is immediate horrified so actually
we think about it we have something on
our side because I mean you know I've
seen I remember once I went to the the
police say this was actually back when I
was applying to become a police officer
another story I've applied during the
army a pleasure of the police officer I
got stories but including I remember I
walked in and they had they had that an
actual car from a car accident you know
like someone had died in the field where
they picked up the car and put it inside
so there'd be this spectacle of like
this can happen to you you know so no I
mean I think it's true that different
social movements the spectacle is an
aspect of it yeah but you know I mean
the most common story in the 21st
century now the Internet has change this
is people become vegan because they saw
a YouTube video of where their meat come
or how milk is actually made and they
never thought about it before and that
changes them so which thing is true you
know hamburgers don't cause heart
attacks in the same direct way that car
accidents cause human death human
fatalities
however hamburgers do cause the deaths
of cows if there are people who are
tepid about the seatbelt legislation
because of that if they're just saying
like oh well you know my cousin died but
I don't care enough to go to Congress
and say like there needs to be
legislation like this you know people
aren't actually caring about about
humans like I you know how many good how
many people are really gonna care about
that - right change the rules for
slaughtering you know change but look I
mean you know videotape changes these
things you know if you read any we're
watching the HBO series Rome right now
but if you read any historical primary
source documents people who lived in
slave societies knew happy slaves
doesn't matter whether it was 1% of
slaves or 20% of slaves they were happy
enough in any given society but they had
slaves who were their friends and
co-workers and they say oh yeah well I
know this guy he's a slave okay whether
word I'm an ancient Rome or ancient
Greece or even you know the Caribbean
Caribbean had very complex layered on
equal slave societies not all slaves
live in same conditions and that was a
huge counterbalance where most people
involved in slavery didn't see the worst
excesses of slavery they didn't see what
happened on a sugar plantation in
contrast to the slaves that may
literally work at the Senate or the
public you know the most privileged
slaves may be the ones you interact with
most the slave who merely minds the shop
for the local smithy or what have you
local local craftsmen or something you
know the slaves he seemingly everyday
you were having encounters with slaves
that reaffirmed the sense that in
general your site your Society worked
fine and you might not see somewhere you
know you buy sugar in its finished
product form and not realize the
unbelievable horrors that are behind the
the sugar industry and again they'd use
pamphlets and the relatively weak
printing press I got it though tonight I
don't know anyone who looks at b6 order
house footage you know the basic reality
of a sow lying on a concrete floor and
one of those steel cages suckling its
piglets where the sow can't even stand
up
the pigs literally can't turn around you
guys are familiar with this stuff the
reality of how artificial insemination
works all this stuff I don't see anyone
who looks at that and says you know what
there are plenty of happy cows they're
plenty happy within this factory farming
system so yeah and again share the
device tobias makes the point very
briefly but very simply that we have a
unique political challenge on our hands
with v ism it's nothing like the
struggle to abolish slavery it's nothing
like this it's on that it's unique it's
got unique advantages and unique
disadvantages but you know i'm going to
recognize those advantages as well but
yeah in response to that spectacle i
guess the sad fact of human nature is a
tiny percentage of people want to become
activists and take it to parliament or
take it to the artist studio take it to
that you know start creating i mean you
may not be directly political maybe
through other creative means they want
to record a song and dance or paint a
picture or whatever it is but a small
small number of people become real
activists a small but significant part
of people just become dietary vegans you
know but are not activists or
what-have-you and then there's this
larger number of people who just decide
to cut down right yeah you know i can
see that happening
I know it's conjecture but I can see
more people becoming vegan you know like
sure adopting a plant-based diet maybe
fifteen percent of the population but
still most people would not care enough
sure like one thing has become more
available and stores I can actually see
that be well for men leading to the
opposition for me the cultural the
cultural change is at what point in your
culture are you an because you
say to somebody hey you know what you
got to wear your seat belt if you're
gonna drive in the car and then at what
point your culture you're an
when you're the only guy who refuses to
wear Co you know that was the cultural
change you went you wear seat belts with
oh wow oh you're gonna force me to wear
a seat belt this is ridiculous - it
really being the opposite where it's
like you know what why not what's the
matter with you why aren't you wearing a
seat belt so I think that's also the
tipping point and you know again with
with cigarettes there's a tipping point
where oh whoa you're the one guy who
refuses to sit around smoking with us as
opposed to you're the one guy who still
goes outside and smoke cigarettes in the
middle of his
Smita when that's when that's
disappeared so you know that's the kind
of question you're gonna ask is at what
point do the the reduced Aryans and the
fake vegans start to get that kind of
leverage but I'm not gonna work for that
I'm not gonna be out on that end of the
the tail I'm not gonna be out there
trying to work with and collaborate with
the people who are wishy-washy and don't
really care diversity I'm gonna work
with the talented tenth who are really
the talented one-tenth of 1% the tiny
minority within a tiny minority who are
highly motivated dynamic creative people
whether involved in cultural process or
political processes for for real change
if you're one of those people you can
google my name you can find in my email
hit me up let's get organized let's make
it happen I'm gonna be back in Canada in
December of this year and then we are
going to organize we're gonna we're
gonna take it to Parliament Hill